Brady Lund: All right. Hello, everyone. This is our last week of regular content. And this module is about careers in information science. And this topic is something that I've added to every course that I teach at Unt, because I think ultimately the purpose of coming to a university is
Brady Lund: to improve your job prospects to secure a job. Right? So we should always be talking about how you can apply what you've learned in this class to seeking jobs and just understanding what jobs are out there.
Brady Lund: So this week I do not have a Powerpoint.
Brady Lund: but rather what I'm going to do is talk about 2 aspects of what I just mentioned, one being the design of a resume for information science jobs. What does a resume look like? Briefly mention that, and then talk about some of the information science jobs that are out there, just taking a brief look at what that's out there right now in one area, and how you can search and find some of this information. So
Brady Lund: start. Let's talk a little bit about a resume.
Brady Lund: So there are many different ways to build a resume. And you can easily search. Google resumes and see different ideas and see different ideas and layouts for different types of jobs. Even within information science, it can vary a little bit. Because if you're working in systems administration, if you're working as a data analyst, you may have a resume that emphasizes more the specific projects you've worked on.
Brady Lund: and those kinds of things. Whereas if you were to go into like librarianship, you may have more of a traditional like academic based resume.
Brady Lund: There's also a type of resume called a curriculum vita, and that is what we use in academic institutions and some higher level jobs, even in like data, science and those kinds of things.
Brady Lund: If you want to see some examples of a curriculum, Vita.
Brady Lund: we have all of our curriculum Vita listed on the unt website. So if you look up a professor that you've had, you can see their curriculum, Vita. So
Brady Lund: search for my name. You'll see my curriculum, Vita, the most recent one I've updated here. And you can just click on that. Open that up. You can see like the last time I've updated it. And those kinds of things. You can see the sections I have the content I have.
Brady Lund: so on and so forth. Mine is
Brady Lund: quite long, most obviously won't won't be quite this long. And for you, if you're starting off your career, you're an undergraduate student, you'll probably just want a 1 page. Resume that provides the most high level insights into what you're doing.
Brady Lund: But regardless of what kind of resume you have, I think there's some key things that you always want to include.
Brady Lund: I think it's really valuable to have some kind of highlights, some kind of summary something that just mentions the most spectacular standout things about you, because if you think about a hiring manager or a hiring committee.
Brady Lund: they're probably looking at your resume for all of
Brady Lund: handful of seconds, and you want to do something. You want to say something that's going to just pop so that they it draws in their attention, and they keep reading. It's kind of like reading a book. You want your 1st chapter. You want your 1st page, your 1st paragraph to be really great, so that people get drawn in and continue reading the book. If it's not very intriguing, they're probably going to move on to one of the 1 million other options out there for books. So
Brady Lund: say something, do something to be intriguing from the get go.
Brady Lund: You're always going to want to include your education. But what you include in the section may vary based off where you're at in your career. So
Brady Lund: I have a Phd, so I'm not going to mention necessarily like my high school education, because nobody cares about that at this point, you know they're caring about. Where did I get my Phd. Undergrad? Those kinds of things? If you're still early in that process, though, if you're still working on your bachelor's degree, you may still include where you got your high school diploma. You may include your more information about your undergrad, more information about different minors.
Brady Lund: Your Gpa, even you could include
Brady Lund: I, in previous versions of my resume, as I was an undergraduate student, as I was a graduate student. I had more details about Gpa. I had more details about specific classes. I took even that I thought would be relevant to different jobs and academic programs. I've removed that now as I've moved on, but not a bad thing to include.
Brady Lund: If you're looking for more things to add to your resume to stand out so specific classes, even names of specific classes could be helpful
Brady Lund: employment, experience same thing.
Brady Lund: You know, I worked in a variety of different jobs in my undergrad that
Brady Lund: were not directly related to what I do now. So ultimately, once I got this job, I removed those from my resume. But as an undergraduate student, as a graduate student, I had all those in there, because that's important information to show. You know, that I worked a job, and I can follow
Brady Lund: guidance and instructions and can work on a regular basis those kinds of things that are important in a resume. So, depending on what stage you're at, what kind of job you're going for. You might mention if you worked at Walmart. If you worked at a grocery store or something like that?
Brady Lund: At some point it may be less important to mention those things in your resume. So you kind of have to determine, based off how much work, experience, have you had? What kind of work experience have you had?
Brady Lund: How much do you want to share? You don't have to list everything there necessarily, though, you know, if you, for instance, only worked at some place for a day because you hated that job, you probably don't have to include that on your resume. Nobody's going to strictly care. They may ask about it on your job application, but probably not necessary to include on the resume. You submit.
Brady Lund: So I have sections on teaching you. You may not have that section, but that's important to what I do. So that's an important section for me, I would say for you, education, employment, experience at this point is going to be important.
Brady Lund: service activities. I would say, everybody, you know have a section on this, and what you have may look different than what I have, because I have university
Brady Lund: relevant work experience. But you may have some of these things. You may be members of professional organizations. You may be member of some kind of student organization or club within the university. I would list that under service
Brady Lund: I was a member of our student chapter of the American Library Association.
Brady Lund: So I listed that I was President for a year.
Brady Lund: All that stuff is good to list under service. That shows that you're involved and you're doing things. You're volunteering your time towards things, even when you're not necessarily being directly compensated for them
Brady Lund: which it just stands out. It's just a good thing to to have it distinguishes you from other people who are applying for a job, as I always say to my graduate students, everybody's going to graduate with the same degree, right? And just in this class there's going to be 60 students
Brady Lund: who are under graduating with an undergraduate degree. The field may be a little bit different, but you're all graduating, probably around the same time with an undergraduate degree. You may be competing for similar jobs. So
Brady Lund: you want to add anything to the resume, you can. That's going to make you stand out from other people.
Brady Lund: Be a more interesting candidate, community engagement. Did you volunteer for things in the community? Did you volunteer to help at a little event or something, serve at a booth, a table, or something related to your field, include anything you can that's going to help you stand out.
Brady Lund: no matter what how small it is. You don't want to have a generic resume that's just going to list your education and some employment experience. Get out, volunteer, and add that to your resume, so that it stands out. That's going to be really important.
Brady Lund: So that's some general guidance on resumes, make yourself stand out. But also
Brady Lund: my resume as an academic is pretty boring. I wouldn't necessarily recommend this format for your resume. So I would actually encourage you to go to Google, see some resume templates out there and find one that's going to be really intriguing. Stand out, maybe even have a little color to. It
Brady Lund: will probably be helpful to you in employment, in applying to jobs. So I would encourage you to go out and look further. Do some of your own research and for activity this week, as you build your own resume. Think about those factors as well.
Brady Lund: Okay, second, let's look at some jobs. So
Brady Lund: there are a lot of different places where you can find jobs in our field. There are professional organizations.
Brady Lund: So let me just pick one. For example, let's go to the American Library Association. If you go to the American Library Association. They have a tab called Education Careers. They have a jobless career center. You can go there to find jobs in libraries, same thing with like the Association for Information Systems Ais Association for Computing Machinery Acm
Brady Lund: Association for Educational Computing technologies aect, they're all going to have
Brady Lund: job sites where you can find jobs within specific fields. But if you really want to just get an idea what's out there and what's out there in your area.
Brady Lund: I think a site like, indeed, works just fine to collate a lot of different job opportunities.
Brady Lund: What I would not recommend is just going to Linkedin
Brady Lund: and to try to find a job.
Brady Lund: Linkedin is a great social, networking site for professionals to share your accomplishments, to connect with other professionals.
Brady Lund: I don't think it's a great idea to use it to find a job. A lot of people who are posting jobs on there are scams or are getting, you know, hundreds and hundreds of people who are responding to their posts. So you just don't have a really great chance to get a job there, and it. I think it was a better use of your time
Brady Lund: to use a site like this and find all the jobs out there and apply to many jobs rather than hope. A job comes to you on a site like Linkedin.
Brady Lund: But let's look at just one area here just as an example. So if I type in information management and it already knows, you know, basically where I'm located. So it'll find jobs around here. So let's just look for information management. And this is at the end of 2024 when I'm recording this video. So you'll probably be watching this in spring 2025. But you can do the same thing and see what's available right now. But let's just see what's available at this time in in our general area.
Brady Lund: So I type in information management, here are some of the jobs
Brady Lund: FBI Special Agent information systems in El Paso. That's interesting, some others around here. So knowledge management. This is again, this is just searching information management as a field things that we've talked about this semester. So research and information services assistant, this is a remote job for people located in Austin, Texas
Brady Lund: collect and enter details of corporate deals, finances. So you're working with financial data and information in this case, that's a remote job.
Brady Lund: The city of Denton is looking for a records analyst. So people working with records within the city, dealing with policies, procedures, things I talked about in our information management module City of Frisco is also looking for records, management
Brady Lund: administrators, so same thing. They have a wide variety of records within their city. They're looking for somebody to engage in that information management process to ensure that those records are well maintained and can be accessed in the future.
Brady Lund: How about some medical roles? This one is not located in the Dallas-fort Worth area and does require a job as a or a background as a nurse practitioner. But the specific job roles as I've looked through it. Here.
Brady Lund: you're working with genetic information, genetic data for this organization. You're collecting that information. You're storing that information. So this would be somebody who has a background already as a nurse practitioner, for instance, but is interested in working in information management. You're using your health expertise to store information to access data in this area.
Brady Lund: more remote jobs, seagate technology records, management information technology specialist for Us customs
Brady Lund: and more health information technology information security officers so specifically working in that confluence of information, ethics, and information management.
Brady Lund: This is at New Mexico State. So a university position.
Brady Lund: working with managing information and ensuring that's secure. So you can see just from this one search. Here we have a wide variety of potential positions that may interest you that are generally pretty well paying and intriguing, definitely relevant to your skill set as well.
Brady Lund: So this is really what I recommend to just find jobs in the area. And then what I recommend is you start doing this searching now, regardless what stage you're at in your undergraduate career. Maybe you're a senior, in which case definitely start doing this. But even as a freshman, if you start researching what these jobs are looking for.
Brady Lund: you can start
Brady Lund: getting some of those additional skills background experience that you may not be getting directly through your classes, so if it, for instance, says one to 2 years of experience, go and volunteer, go and try to get an entry level job. Maybe as a student, even, maybe the university has something in records management that you can work in as a student assistant.
Brady Lund: if it says you need, like public speaking, experience, volunteer to do some public speaking. Mention that in your interviews and things, if it says you need knowledge of something like python.
Brady Lund: Even if you're not taking classes in Python, you could be learning about these classes right now. So
Brady Lund: do that, you know. Learn more while you're working on your classes to make yourself competitive for that position.
Brady Lund: So that's my kind of broad general advice on putting together a resume and looking for jobs.
Brady Lund: this is basically the last video for the semester. So let me take this opportunity to say it's been a pleasure having you this semester. Please look ahead to the final. Please contact me. If you have any questions, as always, I'm here to help. I want to see you succeed, so I will do whatever I can
Brady Lund: within reason to to help you succeed, so please do not hesitate to contact me. I wish you very well with your final
Brady Lund: quiz, and with all of your classes, and have a great summer break.
Brady Lund: Thank you.